(Lighthearted whistling and music)
Alright, welcome to the
alignment and centering videos.
If you've made it this far, congratulations.
I know that sometimes, it's tempting to just say,
I'll just do these tutorials later, but, um,
these videos are short and to the point on purpose
and I'd love to hear, uh, how far you've made it
and how you're feeling about it.
Uh, just tweet at me, I'm @Wesbos.
Wesbos. Just tweet at me and say,
Hey, I've made it to the alignment and centering videos
and, uh, let me know what you're thinking of it.
So, uh, alignment and centering, the next four videos.
I think this is kind of the meat and potatoes of
flexboxes are some of the more important, uh,
parts of flexbox and I think stuff that
you're actually coming here, uh, to learn.
So, uh, what I've done here, is I'm just
in the alignment and centering, uh, html here,
but we've got still the same container and
flex items that we're talking about.
Um, and I've just said display flex on the container.
So, nothing else, nothing else.
If you've got anything else in there, uh,
make sure you get rid of that.
I just want the very basics.
So, uh, the other thing I want you to do is go to the
CSS-TRICKS article on
Flexbox and uh, this is a great reference for uh,
everything that is in Flexbox and we are going
to be starting with, uh, justify-content.
So, what is justify-content? Justify-content says,
how are the items aligned on the main axis? Now hold on.
What's the main axis again?
Remember when we talked about that in a video before.
The main axis by default, is from left to right
across the screen from your left to right
and the, what's this one called again?
Where it goes top to bottom, top to bottom?
That's the cross axis, good. Great job.
Uh, so, we aren't concerned with
vertically centering right now, uh,
we are, well I shouldn't say vertically centered, cause
if the, they switch, then we would we'll look at that in a
second but, we are only concerned about, how are these items
here, aligned on the main axis, which,
right now, is from left to right.
So, let's go ahead
and
go into CSS and we will say, justify-content.
Now, justify-content has a number of different options.
Uh, we have flex-start which is the default.
So, if I say flex-start, refresh, nothing happens.
That's because, the items are aligned
to the start of the flex container, right?
So, uh, again, left to right they start here.
You probably figured out that we also have flex-end.
Which means that the flex container is,
you can't really see it right now, but if I say,
border 10px,
solid
mistyrose,
best color ever, you'll see that this is the flex container.
It's kind of going all around here
with this little pink border.
So, it starts on the right hand side cause
that's the end of our flex container.
What else do we have there? We've got center.
Give it a save, refresh, and
it will just align it's center there.
We don't have to do any merging tricks or
anything that doesn't really makes sense,
It actually just makes the sense to say
justify-content, uh, we've got one called space-between,
which, this is kind of cool. So, right now,
before I did any of that,
our items are just as wide as the amount of content.
So most of them are just as wide as
the single number except for ten.
It's a little bit different.
And in a future video, we are going to be looking at,
uh, the flex property which will allow you
to divvy the space up, however,
if you don't have that, or if you
have maybe put a width on them,
uh, or you just have a natural width on them,
which is the case right now,
If you say space between, it's just gonna start the
first one at the flex-start, the last one at the flex-end,
and it's just gonna divvy up the rest of
the space in between each one.
It's really nice because, if you're doing this
with floats, you'd have to do a whole bunch of
different math to be able to figure out, alright,
I have ten items, but I only have nine spaces in between,
then how do I work all of that out with margins?
So, space-between, um, we also have space-around.
So what's the difference between
space-between and space-around? Maybe think about it
real quick, 3, 2, 1, refresh.
Okay, so what just happened there is,
uh, it also took into account the spacing
on the left and the right.
So, sometimes when you're making grid or a column or
something like that, you don't want space on
the left and the right which is why you have to figure out
that you have to space it in between them.
Um, but space-around will give it use space on
the left and the right.
How come the space right here looks to be
only about quite a bit less than this one here?
Uh, is it because of the border?
Or, is it because of something else?
It's because, on this one, one on the right hand has
some space and two on the left hand has some space.
So, it's not actually, perfectly centered like that,
even if you take the border off, uh, you'll see that
this space is only half of what we have there.
So, those are all of them. Again, we got
flex-start, which is at the start,
flex-end at the end, center pops them right in the middle,
and we've got space-between and space-around
which do, uh, a number of different
divvying up of the less the available space.
Now, let's roll a quick talk about, uh,
switching around the flex direction because
uh, I'm really stressing that our main axis is
from left to right and our cross axis is from top to bottom.
However, we learned in the previous video that when you
go ahead and change that, so if I default
the flex direction is set to,
what, you tell me? Correct, it is set to row by default.
So, that's not going to do anything, but
if I changed it to column,
you give it a save and refresh,
like, it's just totally different and
this is generally where people get confused as to flexbox
because you changed it to column and all of a sudden
all of that really nice spacing is gone.
Um, and the reason why this is happening
is because of two things. First of all, how high
is this container here? I'm gonna put this border
back on and refresh. How high is it?
Well, this border goes all the way down.
It's really just as high as the content needs to go.
uh, and, if you made this content any bigger or smaller
it would just kind of go ahead on up and down with it.
So, for us to actually take advantage of justify-content,
when we switch the main axis
from row, which is left to right, to
column, which is top to bottom, is we need to
actually give this container a height. So I'm just gonna
go ahead and say, min-height: 100vh like we
did in the past videos and that will set a
fixed height on the, or at least a minimum fixed height
on there. Refresh, that does nothing. Why?
Because, these are way to big for it.
It's actually spilling on out of it.
So, uh, how do we make these items a little bit smaller
so we can actually visualize that? Now let's go back to here
and choose these to twenty, does that work? Perfect! So,
now, we are
still on justify-content space-around,
but, let me, uh, change that back to flex-start.
Okay, so now our flex container is this
pink border here. It goes all the way down into the bottom
and, we are at the flex-start, which,
instead of going left to right because the
main axis was left to right, now our
main axis is top to bottom, it's going to start at the top
so you'll probably figure out what happens when
we make it flex-end, it starts them at the bottom
and goes on up, uh, same goes for if we change it to center.
And there, that's the big kahuna everyone wants to know.
How do I vertically center something with flexbox? And that
is one of the ways. We're gonna look at a couple more,
uh, ways that might not set,
cause you might not want columns in your case,
you still might want to stick with your rows.
Uh, but that's definitely one of them,
uh, again, space-between,
better, between.
You're gonna see the space-between. Similarly, space-around
is gonna give you some space at the top and the bottom.
So, again. When you're doing this stuff, just always stop.
Ask yourself, where is my main axis? Where is my cross axis?
Tell me right now, where's our main axis? Top to bottom.
Where's our cross axis? Left to right.
So, okay, that's good. In the next video we're
going to be looking at a line items. Uh, which is,
uh, sort of the flip-flop of this. Um,
instead of working the main axis,
we're working on the cross axis.
So, see you in that video.